## Page 21

Unit in Standard Library
-time_unit: “1ns”
-voltage_unit: “1V”
-Current_unit: “1mA”
-pulling_resistance_unit: “1kohm”
-Leakage_power_unit: “1pW”
-Capacitive_load_unit: “1pF”

## Page 22



## Page 23

2. Define Design Environment

## Page 24

Conmands used to Define the
Design Environment

## Page 25

Set Operating Conditions
- Operating condition model scales components
delay, directs the optimizer to simulate variations
in process, temperature and voltage
- set_operating_conditions

## Page 26

Set Input Pulling Resistance (khoms)
- set_drive
- set_drive : Sets the rise_drive or fall_drive
attributes to specified resistance values on
specified input and inout ports.
- set_drive 2 .0 {A B C}; or set_drive 2 .0 “A B C”;
- set_drive 2 [all_inputs];
- set_drive -rise 1 [get_ports B];
- set_drive -rise drive_of(-rise TECH_LIBRARY/INVERTER/OUT) \
[get_ports C]
 drive_of : Returns the drive resistance value of the
specified library cell pin.

## Page 27

Set Input Pulling Resistance (khoms)
- set_drive
- set_drive_cell : sets attributes on input or inout
ports of the current design that specify that a
library cell or output pin of a library cell drives the
specified ports.
- set_driving_cell -lib_cell AND2 {IN1}
- set_driving_cell -lib_cell INV -pin Z \
-library tech_lib [all_inputs]
- set_driving_cell -lib_cell INV -don’t_scale {IN1}
- set_driving_cell -rise -lib_cell BUF1_TS -pin Z {IN1}
- set_driving_cell -fall -lib_cell DFF_TS -pin Q {IN1}

## Page 28

Setting Output Loading Capacitance (pF)
-set_load
- set_load : Sets the load attribute to a specified
value on specified ports and nets.
- load_of: Returns the capacitance of the specified
library cell pin.
- Example:
set MAX_LOAD [load_of slow/AND2X1/A]
set_load [expr $MAX_LOAD*15] [all_outputs]

## Page 29

Setting Output Loading Capacitance (pF)
-set_load
- set _load 2 in1
- set port_load [expr 2.5+3*[load_of tech_lib/IV/A]]
- set_load $port_load [all_outputs]
- set_load [load_of tech_lib/IV/Z] {input_1 inoput_2}

## Page 30

set_fanout_load
- You can model the external fanout effects by
specifying the expected fanout load values on output
ports with the set_fanout_load command.
- set_fanout_load 4 {out1}
- Design Compiler tries to ensure that the sum of the
fanout load on the output port plus the fanout load of
cells connected to the output port driver is less than
the maximum fanout limit of the library, library cell, and
design.

## Page 31

set_load V.S. set_fanout_load
- fanout load is not the same as load.
- fanout load is a unitless value that represents a
numerical contribution to the total fanout. Load is a
capacitance value.
- Design Compiler uses fanout load primarily to measure
the fanout presented by each input pin. An input pin
normally has a fanout load of 1, but it can have a
higher value.

## Page 32

Design Constraints: set_max_fanout
-set_max_fanout is a design constraints.
-set_max_fanout: set the max_fanout
attribute to a specified value on input
ports and designs
-set_max_fanout 20.0 going_places
-set_max_fanout 18.5 TEST

## Page 33

set_fanout_load V.S. set_max_fanout
- set_fanout_load is design envoronment;
set_max_fanout is a design constraint.
- Design Compiler models fanout restrictions by
associating a fanout_load attribute with each input pin
and a max_fanout attribute with each output (driving)
pin on a cell.
- Design Compiler tries to ensure that the sum of the
fanout load on the output port plus the fanout load of
cells connected to the output port driver is less than
the maximum fanout limit of the library, library cell, and
design.

## Page 34

Case Study: fanout_load & max_fanout_load
>>set_fanout_load 3.0 OUT1
>>set_max_fanout 8 [get_designs ADDER]

## Page 35

Case Study
- An input pin normally has a fanout load of 1, but it can
have a higher value.
- The fanout load imposed by a driven cell (U3) is not
necessarily 1.0. Library developers can assign higher
fanout loads (for example, 2.0) to model internal cell
fanout effects.
- You can also set a fanout load on an output port (OUT1)
to model external fanout effects.

## Page 36

Net Delay

## Page 37

Wire Load Model
- A wire load model is an estimate of a net’s RC
parasitics based on the net’s fanout.
Example: dc_shell-t> set_wire_load_model 10x10

## Page 38

Setting Wire Load Mode
dc_shell-t> set_wire_load_mode <top|enclosed|segmented>

## Page 39

Hierarchical Wire Load Models
- DC supports three modes for determining which wire
load model to use for nets that cross hierarchical
boundaries:
- Top: DC models nets as if the design has no hierarchy and uses the wire
load model specified for the top level of the design hierarchy for all nets in
a design and its sub-designs.
- Enclosed: …
- Segmented: …

## Page 40

Hierarchical Wire Load Models
- Enclose: DC uses the wire load model of the smallest design that
fully encloseds the net. If the design enclosing the net has no wire load
model, the tool traverses the design hierearchy upward until it finds a wire
load model. Enclosed mode is more accurate than top mode when cells in
the same design are placed in a contiguous region during layout.
- Segmented: DC determines the wire load models of each segment of
a net by the design encompassing the segment. Nets crossing hierarchical
boundaries are divided into segments.
